docs/Additional-Resources.md, before:

Video walk through - https://github.com/ct-Open-Source/tuya-convert/issues/42

Proxmox - Tuya-Convert LXC enviroment - https://github.com/whiskerz007/proxmox_tuya-convert_container

Setup A Community Version of Proxmox (for above script to work) - Copy & Paste the entire section below and run once.
```
# Disable Commercial Repo
sed -i "s/^deb/\#deb/" /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pve-enterprise.list
apt-get update

# Add PVE Community Repo
echo "deb http://download.proxmox.com/debian/pve $(grep "VERSION=" /etc/os-release | sed -n 's/.*(\(.*\)).*/\1/p') pve-no-subscription" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pve-no-enterprise.list
apt-get update

# Remove nag
echo "DPkg::Post-Invoke { \"dpkg -V proxmox-widget-toolkit | grep -q '/proxmoxlib\.js$'; if [ \$? -eq 1 ]; then { echo 'Removing subscription nag from UI...'; sed -i '/data.status/{s/\!//;s/Active/NoMoreNagging/}' /usr/share/javascript/proxmox-widget-toolkit/proxmoxlib.js; }; fi\"; };" > /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/no-nag-script
apt --reinstall install proxmox-widget-toolkit
```

Commit message:

docs: improve Additional Resources page structure
- Added clear section headings
- Labeled external references appropriately
- Clarified video walkthrough is from original project
- Improved Proxmox setup section formatting
- All content preserved, zero information loss

Phase 1, Step 1.2 complete ✅

docs/Additional-Resources.md, after:

# Additional Resources

## Video Tutorials

**Video walkthrough** (from original tuya-convert project): https://github.com/ct-Open-Source/tuya-convert/issues/42

## Third-Party Tools

**Proxmox - Tuya-Convert LXC environment**: https://github.com/whiskerz007/proxmox_tuya-convert_container

### Setup Proxmox Community Version

For the above Proxmox script to work, you may need to setup the community version. Copy and paste the entire section below and run once:
```
# Disable Commercial Repo
sed -i "s/^deb/\#deb/" /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pve-enterprise.list
apt-get update

# Add PVE Community Repo
echo "deb http://download.proxmox.com/debian/pve $(grep "VERSION=" /etc/os-release | sed -n 's/.*(\(.*\)).*/\1/p') pve-no-subscription" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pve-no-enterprise.list
apt-get update

# Remove nag
echo "DPkg::Post-Invoke { \"dpkg -V proxmox-widget-toolkit | grep -q '/proxmoxlib\.js$'; if [ \$? -eq 1 ]; then { echo 'Removing subscription nag from UI...'; sed -i '/data.status/{s/\!//;s/Active/NoMoreNagging/}' /usr/share/javascript/proxmox-widget-toolkit/proxmoxlib.js; }; fi\"; };" > /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/no-nag-script
apt --reinstall install proxmox-widget-toolkit
```
